+++
title = 'Personal or professional website?'
date = 2022-12-22
draft = false
summary = "Keywords: Website, hub, individual, center, life aspects, menu, friend, essay, client, portfolio, IT projects, student, employee, freelancer, solutions architect, entrepreneurship, sixpack, Nobel Prize, Farrah Fowler, Cooper, design, learning platform, prototype, MJ De Marco, changeability."
tags = ["clarification"]
+++


This **website** is a **hub**, but not in the way a switch star-connects network nodes; it’s more like a **person** in an immutable **center**, seemingly chaotically amalgamating various areas of life, or fields, within itself.

From the menu, it’s clear where everything is located, allowing a friend to effortlessly find an essay, and a potential client to swiftly access my portfolio, which predominantly contains IT projects.

For many years, I was a student, then an employee. Currently, I’m self-employed in the IT sector as a freelancer. Soon, I’ll be joining a firm as a Solutions Architect in a parallel role. However, fundamentally, I’m inevitably gravitating towards entrepreneurship.

Sometimes, I am overwhelmed by a personal milestone, like finally achieving a clearly visible six-pack.

Other times, I’m engrossed in a significant societal event, such as the awarding of the Nobel Prize in Physics to Farrah Fowler and Cooper.

However, more than 90% of my time is devoted to IT-related projects, whether that’s designing a website, creating an e-learning platform, tinkering with a prototype, or implementing a business in line with MJ De Marco’s principles.

Despite the variety of my fields of activity and constant changes, this website aims to provide a certain constancy.

But I could also be more honest and admit that I’ve been told that this website should be either personal or professional, and a visitor might be confused by the lack of categorization. Hence, this explanation serves as a substitute for a redesign or split.