+++
title = 'Recap Week 41 (2023)'
date = 2023-10-16
draft = false
tags = ["recap"]
+++

**Survey:**  
Several times during the week I write down important events from my life, interesting facts, thoughts and opinions on various topics and then present a selection of them in the form of a single post, like this one that I’m currently reading. The other option would be to post several times during the week and thus create shorter, more compact and more topic-specific posts. I would be interested to know which option you like better. For me, a single, longer weekly review as a collection of different topics involves significantly less work. When making your decision, you should not ignore the fact that my well-being contributes significantly to the quality of the texts.

**Artist website:**  
This year I was employed full-time as a solutions architect for six months, where I created online forms. I remained self-employed part-time. This parallel freelance work shouldn’t be a secret, and that’s why it was expressly noted in the employment contract. I wanted to work on any outstanding projects from the previous year in the evenings or weekends and, if possible, not take on any new ones for the time being.
However, a great opportunity to create a comprehensive website for an artist came up and I took it. We got to know each other better during a short phone call. The chemistry was right. The most important goals were quickly formulated, the plan for their implementation was easily outlined, and we both looked forward to a promising collaboration with confidence.
I outlined the advantages of having your own website and the various opportunities to earn money through online courses and web3 services in addition to selling your works. At the same time, I made it clear that we would proceed slowly at first and generally only gradually, and that it would take time until all goals were achieved.
She is an ideal test customer and her project will look very good in my portfolio, which is not yet too convincing. A homepage including an “About Me” section and a gallery of her most important images was quickly set up and available online. I was unable to implement shop integration, Mint, dropping and integrating NFTs and painting courses either in terms of time or energy. The dream of building multiple streams of income was shattered and quickly replaced by a new dream, a simple, honest, realistic idea of working on just one project at a time, of concentrating all your energy on one point. Like in the movie “Glengarry Glen Ross” with Alec Baldwin: “ABC! Always be closing”, here in the sense of bringing things to an end. I have been exclusively self-employed for over three months and can therefore invest more time in this project. The website with the specified functionality is expected to be ready next week.