+++
title = 'Sources Overview'
date = 2024-07-15
draft = false
summary = "Collection and sharing of materials on problem-solving, memory arts, reading, and speaking skills to develop meta-competencies, emphasizing interdisciplinary insights and practical applications."
tags = ["meta", "lmc", "misc"]
+++  

{{< youtube vWyeEj6pS0U >}}
{{< smalltext >}}Fig. 1: Blog Post as Video on @meta-competencies{{< /smalltext >}} 

</br></br>  
</br></br>  

Since my school days, I’ve been collecting materials on problem-solving techniques, memory arts, reading, and speaking skills. My archive now forms the basis for my learning content, but I won’t be able to process everything. For interested students, I’ll gradually share all my sources, including book references and links.

Many sources only touch on meta-competencies superficially. For example, it’s not obvious how Pressfield’s “Turning Pro” or DeMarco’s “The Fastlane Millionaire” relate to problem-solving. However, “Turning Pro” offers effective advice for major issues like existential crises and can apply to smaller challenges.

Sometimes, a crucial idea from a different field can be very helpful elsewhere, like Brian Greene using The Simpsons to explain abstract concepts. Such interdisciplinary approaches can open new perspectives and foster innovative solutions.

Many titles are in German, so find the English versions yourself. I’ll add and possibly comment on the sources over time.

My archive combines in-depth and superficial sources, providing a comprehensive foundation for studying and developing meta-competencies applicable to various life areas.  

---

</br></br>  

{{< newtab url="https://youtube.com/@meta-competencies" text="Go to: Learning Platform (LMC)" >}}