+++
title = 'WordPress: Plugin Error and Inaccessible Backend'
date = 2024-07-19
draft = false
summary = "What to do when a plugin blocks access to both the WordPress backend and frontend?"
tags = ["wordpress", "tutorial", "security"]
+++

*Currently, I'm still struggling with CapCut to translate my videos into English using the AI-Video-Translator. Until then, only the texts will be available in English.*

---

A plugin can cause conflicts because it is incompatible with other plugins, the WordPress version, or because it is corrupted. As a result, neither the backend via `/wp-admin` nor the website itself may be accessible.

Often an error message is displayed, providing a hint about which plugin is causing the problem. Alternatively, it could be the most recently installed plugin that was activated before the issues began.

**Situation:** Neither the website nor the standard access to the backend is possible. Based on the error description or assumption from recent changes, the relevant plugin is identified.

**Note:** The modified version of the "All-in-One WP Migration" plugin by {{< newtab url="https://de.servmask.com" text="ServMask" >}} via {{< newtab url="https://www.wpressdoctor.com/migratep..." text="wpressdoctor" >}} allows for an easy export of the entire WordPress installation. This is helpful when migrating to a new host or making significant changes to the installation. More about this can be found in this {{< newtab url="https://youtu.be/YZn0ObFragk?si=vOEu7KdsqIDmUJeN" text="video" >}}.

### Solution Steps:
1. Access your hosted WordPress files via WebFTP or a tool like FileZilla.
   - This is possible even if the website itself is not accessible.
2. Navigate to `Home - public_html - wp-content - plugins`.
3. All plugins are listed. Rename the relevant plugin, e.g., from `wp-super-cache` to `wp-super-cache-X`.
4. The website and backend should now be accessible.
5. It would now be easiest to delete the relevant plugin via the backend dashboard under `Plugins`.

### Summary:
A conflict with a WordPress plugin can prevent access to both the backend and the frontend. Renaming the faulty plugin via FTP can resolve the issue, making the website and backend accessible again.
