+++
title = "YouTube Stream, Elgato FaceCam Pro, High-End Audio, Residential Proxy, Statelessness ⎮ VLOG Nr. 1"
date = 2024-07-26
draft = false
summary = "I share my experiences and insights on various topics: Elgato FaceCam Pro with DSLR-like settings, microphones like Blue Yeti Nano and Marantz Professional MPM2000U, top in-ear headphones like Tin Hifi T2, and secure access to US tech services via a residential IP from IP-Royal. Additionally, I discuss statelessness and the importance of respect and kindness in daily life."
tags = ["vlog", "tutorial"]
+++


- I highly recommend the Elgato Facecam Pro; the accompanying software "Camera Hub" allows for DSLR-like settings; video quality is good; 2160p resolution is sufficient for streaming even with zoom; automatic settings work great.
- For the first stream via YouTube, I have to wait 24 hours; the reason is unclear to me.
- The Blue Yeti Nano USB microphone is only usable with Logitech G-Hub software and the "Blue-Voice setting."
- The Marantz Professional MPM2000U USB microphone is my reference and is generally recommended over much more expensive dynamic microphones.
- For recordings outside my home office or while traveling, I bought the Sennheiser XS Lav USB-C lavalier microphone.
- Setting up a microphone involves the following steps:
  - Correct distance and angle:
    - A dynamic microphone (Shure SM7B) is almost touched by the mouth, and you speak into it from above.
    - My condenser microphone (Blue Yeti Nano) is about 10 cm slightly to the side of my mouth, and I speak into it from the front or slightly to the side with cardioid pattern activated.
    - My lavalier microphone (Sennheiser XS Lav) is attached to the neckline of the T-shirt below the head, and thanks to the omnidirectional pattern, everything close to my head is picked up without needing to speak directly into the microphone.
  - The input level should be set so that about -15 dB is reached when speaking softly:
    - Adjust the input level via system settings if necessary.
    - Further adjust the level in OBS if necessary.
    - I had to maximize the level in the system settings, also maximize in OBS, and additionally increase it via the "Gain" filter; otherwise, it was too quiet.
  - Background noise may need to be reduced using the "Noise Suppression" filter.
  - I also adjusted my Sennheiser Lav using the "VST-2.x Plugin" filter and the "Marvel GEQ" setting "Brighter and Bassy."
- Regarding headphones or audio in general:
  - Apple's AirPods (not Pro) get a grade of 4 from me:
    - Very practical in combination with MacBook, iPhone, iPad.
    - They do not penetrate too deeply into the ear canal, making them more comfortable when speaking.
  - Tin Hifi T2 are my reference in-ear headphones for only 50 EUR:
    - Smooth, very clear, natural sound for hours of enjoyment and rediscovery of your music collection.
    - Compared to much more expensive AirPods or the famous Beyerdynamic DT 770 Pro, it feels like a curtain is lifting, as if a veil is disappearing, and you finally hear clear, unadulterated music.
  - Audio enjoyment depends on the weakest link in a chain:
    - Music recording, music file/stream itself.
    - Amplifier.
    - D/A converter.
    - Cable.
    - Earphones.
    - Fit of the earphones.
  - Campfire Audio Comet as a competitor to the Tin Hifi T2:
    - Very good reviews from Darko Audio.
    - Inspired to delve deeper into high-end audio.
  - The AudioQuest DragonFly (black) did not convince me.
  - Unlike many or even most other tech areas, a reference-class product from 25 years ago still offers a top-notch experience today:
    - The B&W Nautilus or a Wilson Audio from 2000 is still amazing today compared to Apple's latest smart speaker.
    - A DIY speaker like the "Needle" still effortlessly outperforms.
- The EU might restrict access to state-of-the-art technology through fear and over-regulation:
  - Out of fear or foresight, I now only access services from OpenAI, Claude, or Perplexity via a static, residential IP from IP-Royal:
    - Purchase a residential IP from IP-Royal with the USA as the location and monthly renewal for about 4 EUR.
    - Set up the "IP Royal" extension in Chrome.
    - Turn the extension on and off or use this browser exclusively for accessing US tech services with possible restrictions.
    - Of course, I also get the latest features as quickly as people in the USA.
- Statelessness:
  - It is not good or even dangerous if one's existence depends on the state of a single country, like Germany in my case.
  - I can easily regain Polish citizenship.
  - I can also relatively easily obtain Portuguese citizenship through investment in Portugal and the Golden Visa program.
  - After deregistering in Germany and dividing my stay among the mentioned three countries, I would quickly have significantly more options.
  - Permanent residence in Uruguay/Paraguay is also relatively easy to obtain.
- Finally, I would like to point out that it is very important, despite anger or frustration, not to succumb to the first impulse, the initial reaction, and still try to remain friendly and reasonable:
  - It often helps to take other perspectives and ask about reasons for the behavior of others.
  - Since we are many people on this Earth and often in high density, and we frequently encounter very different people and still have to somehow live together, we must respect each other!