+++
title = '7. Learning Platform for Meta-Competencies (Germany)'
weight = 7
summary = "Objectives: Highly cost-effective (about 10 EUR monthly), robust, infinitely scalable, and minimalist system for learning in German."
draft = false
+++


**Objectives**  
Highly cost-effective (approx. 10 EUR/month), robust, infinitely scalable, and minimalist system for learning in German.

</br></br>  

**Implementation**  
- IONOS Webhosting Plus with Performance Level 5 for ample reserves.
- Unmanaged WordPress as CMS with Academy Theme.
- Academy LMS (Learning Management System).
- Complete design customization.
- Translation via DeepL API.
- CDN from bunny.net.
- Pull-Zone and Geo-replication via 15 PoPs.
- Custom Hostname “cdn.meta-kompetenzen.org”.
- Stream service for 1440p learning videos from bunny.net.
  - Geo-replication.
  - Basic DRM protection.
  - Watermarking.
  - Prevention of direct URL accesses.
  - MP4 Fallback.
  - ...

Based on user feedback and personal insights, establish a sister platform in English – meta-competencies.org (subsequent changes only).

</br></br>  

**Results**  
{{< newtab url="https://meta-kompetenzen.org" text="meta-kompetenzen.org" >}}

{{< lightbox src="/img/p7.1.jpg" alt="Alt-Text" >}}
{{< smalltext >}}Fig. 1: Home page on January 14, 2023{{< /smalltext >}}


{{< youtube LXZcauPwmDA >}}
{{< smalltext >}}Fig. 2: Project results in video, as of January 14, 2023{{< /smalltext >}}

</br></br>  

***

</br></br>  

### Project Restart on December 13, 2023

**Context**  
- Due to lack of time or prioritization of other projects, LMK has been primarily only structurally available so far, thus without content. For the so-called trial course, only a preview was available.
- For the website's speed, in addition to the server (IONOS WP Essential), two plugins were responsible, with whose performance I was not satisfied: bunny.net (CDN) and W3-Total-Cache.
- IONOS offers, at least for "Webhosting Plus" and "WP Essential", only limited and difficult to comprehend scaling options.

</br></br>  

**Goals**  
- Relocation of the website (WordPress installation) to a new hosting provider (Linode or Hetzner)
- Increase in speed (Cache, CDN, DNS, Server)
- Creation of the trial course and marketing (advertising on Facebook, etc.)
- Possibly, creation of the paid course "Art of Memory"
- Increase in the security of the WordPress installation
- Collaboration with a second course author (besides myself) and a web designer

</br></br>  

**Log**  
For now only in German.


---

[Previous Project]({{< relref "p6.md" >}}) | [Next Project]({{< relref "p8.md" >}})