+++
title = 'Analyzing JP’s ’12 Rules for Life’ – 3 (Preface, Paragraph 1)'
date = 2023-09-17T16:27:56+01:00
draft = false
tags = ["jp", "sketch"]
+++

During my time at university, I was constantly overwhelmed. Family, financial, and health issues, a physically demanding part-time job in a warehouse, exam stress at university, and a slew of other tasks and duties weighed on me so much that I lost my zest for life and often didn’t even want to get out of bed in the morning. In search of help in simplifying my life, Google quickly pointed me to an article from a psychology magazine that answered the question: “Getting through life with just two rules: Is it possible?” At first, this question seems provocative, but the arguments made in the article quickly resonated with me. I’ve revisited and recalled it so many times that its main points have become second nature to me. I’ve recommended it several times to friends and acquaintances facing similar challenges: Firstly, we must never forget our original goals and dreams, and secondly, we mustn’t be deceived by our own projections. The article is too valuable to be condensed so much, which is why it’s linked here and, in case the magazine is unavailable, also stored as a PDF on my website.

JP is well aware that we are already supposed to follow many, if not too many, rules and that the title “12 Rules…” might deter many. Therefore, he seriously addresses this potential reaction, asking in the preface on the first page, in the first paragraph: “Rules? More rules? Really?” I believe it’s absolutely right and essential to address this early on in the book. However, I would have preferred if JP, rather than the authorized and commissioned Norman Doidge, had answered this initial pressing question. I hope all editions or formats of 12RFL include this preface and that readers don’t skip over it. I, for one, began my first reading with Rule 1. By the way, it’s a proven practice at the beginning of a practical guide to encourage the reader and give them solid reasons to continue reading, affirming their decision to have purchased and opened the book. Ludwig Reiners, the so-called “German Interceptor” and preserver of the German language, remains unmatched in didactics. His concise style guide might only be about writing, but it too contains prohibitions, rules, and advice. He does even better than JP by addressing the reader directly at the beginning, not in a preface but in a letter, in a personal and somewhat humorous manner, asking why they bought his booklet instead of a few cups of good coffee, followed by the benefits of his guide and its offerings.

I’m digressing too much. Anyway, Doidge recognizes that life is complex and restrictive and that we are all unique, continuously changing beings. Some general rules, which don’t consider this, might therefore be unhelpful. It’s like having the same limited set of instructions for various technical devices. How could a single manual be useful for a smartwatch, a camera, and a car at the same time? I don’t quite understand this initial presumed criticism from readers. After all, general rules can indeed apply successfully to a wide variety of people and situations. If a navigation rule said, “Go 1000 km north!”, it would be counterproductive for someone traveling from Germany to Italy. A more versatile navigation rule would be along the lines of: “Orient yourself. Determine your current position. Determine your destination…”. Using the example of a manual for technical devices, a general troubleshooting instruction might read: “Check, if applicable, for a power source!”. This would be useful for a smartwatch, a camera, and a car.

[At this point, I have to break some bad news to the reader. The workload for the analytical reading of 12RFL, along with my reactions, audio recordings, etc., is greater than anticipated. Therefore, I will only continue the series, if at all, once I receive sufficient feedback, especially in the form of requests for continuation. Until then, my literary efforts will be limited to a weekly review.]

(Based on my German-language blog post from September 17, 2023.)